all right, so let's just do a quick run
through
on plotting with excel using scatter
plot
just really just for anyone who has
never done this before with excel so
this is a very simple
example i'm just going to go ahead and
and take a look at this quadratic
formula
uh first thing we want to do is generate
some
x values here so i'm going to do is
i'm going to go ahead and use a step of
0.01
once i get 2 entered i can then
highlight them both and
just take this corner here and drag down
as far as i need
it's just go ahead and just stop there
but that will automatically create the
series for me
i've broken the formula up into
three columns and then i'm going to add
them all together here
you don't need to do this you could of
course just write an equation and have
the one column
i'm doing this in this example so that i
can plot
all four of these at one time just show
you a multiply
okay so to get a i've written
uh my a b and c coefficients up here and
their values
so i want to use this
value here at b 1. now when i copy this
value down it's going to want to move
the
row number so what we need to do is put
in
dollar signs this will fix the column
and fix the row so that matter where i
copy this
it will always point here so
so now when i copy down
you'll notice that it doesn't change
update formula it
all stays pointing at b1
so i'll do the same thing here except
now i'm going to go to
my coefficient b again i'll put the
dollar signs in
and then i'm going to multiply by x
which is here
okay no dollar signs here because when i
copy down i want this to change
and then notice there's a little trick
there all i did was double click
go ahead and turn that off again so here
i can highlight it i've got my equation
if i double click here in the corner i
could drag down but if i double click
it'll automatically run down for the
length
of my series so that just makes things
convenient
again notice it's it's staying here
always looking at b
even though i'm copying down but it is
updating my row
each time same thing with
cx squared so let's do this value
put the dollar signs in
then we're going to go ahead and
multiply by
my x value squared
again double click down
[Music]
and then we'll go ahead and sum
these three and we'll double click down
okay so those are all my values so now
all i need to do is highlight these
if i want to plot all four
i want to plot just some of the columns
and i would highlight the x
i'd hold the ctrl key and then highlight
any other column that i want to plot
and here i'm going to plot them all just
go up to insert
go up to charts here for scatter
and stick my scatter plot in
and that's it if you need to adjust the
y-axis just double-click on it
and you can adjust the bounds and other
things
all right